Meeting Minutes
28/01/2013
---------------

Discussion regarding User Interface - Ricky has mocked up some logos for the app and is continuing to design the look and feel of the product. There is a need for a more simple logo that can be used for the app icon, i.e. simple and with no text. We have discussed the possibility of using a splash screen to make the product seem more professional. This could be as simple as a logo with "tap to begin". Filters and Gestures should be assigned to default values, perhaps with some turned off initially. The Gestures could also have an animation or an image to describe them more coherently than simply a description. The background and look and feel should be quite dark as the application is about manipulating bass. We also feel it should be simple and should probably reflect the default Android colour scheme, i.e. black. The idea of using an amplifier as an icon, at least for the splash screen if not the main screen background, was discussed. This conveys the idea of it being musical as well as it being about bass and in keeping with the dark theme. The text on the amp could be replaced with "Master the Bass", or the logo, and the switches at the bottom (or top) of the screen could be used to access the File, Filters, Settings and Edit menus. A record/stop button should also be included.

Discussion regarding interface between Gestures and Filters - Guy requires functionality from the Filter Manager class to retrieve filter names and a way of enabling or disabling the filters, which can be called from the Gesture events. A toggle filter method would also be useful. Filter Manager should be able to return a list of filter IDs, should be able to return the name of a filter given an ID, should able to enable/disable/toggle a filter given an ID.

The existing code for the Filters menu is packaged as ListV.java and ListV2.java. These will be renamed FilterList and GestureList for readabibility. Guy to check these into the Beta branch ASAP.

Discussion regarding Settings menu - the Settings menu should include settings for altering the default frequency of audio (the one being low-pass filtered) (could be called pitch?), the lowest cutoff frequency for the low-pass filter, volume, orientation lock, vibration feedback for filters. Settings menu to be created by Petro and Guy.

Discussion regarding changes to sound generation - after some research was done, it seems the way electronic music creates wobbling basslines is to oscillate a low-pass filter, by changing the 'cutoff' value, on a fixed audio tone. This way, by increasing the cutoff, so that higher frequencies can be heard, then decreasing it again, smoothly, a wobble can be heard. By taking the accelerometer data and running it through a function, f(x), we could produce the cutoff for that point in the action and create a tone.